                             Call for Talks
               ACM SIGPLAN Haskell Implementors' Workshop

    http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2013
                Boston, USA, September 22th, 2013
        The workshop will be held in conjunction with ICFP 2013
                http://www.icfpconference.org/icfp2013/

Important dates

Proposal Deadline:  13th August    2013 (by midnight, any timezone)
Notification:       27th August    2013
Workshop:           22th September 2013

The Haskell Implementors' Workshop is to be held alongside ICFP 2013
this year in Boston. There will be no proceedings; it is an informal
gathering of people involved in the design and development of Haskell
implementations, tools, libraries, and supporting infrastructure.

This relatively new workshop reflects the growth of the user community:
there is a clear need for a well-supported tool chain for the
development, distribution, deployment, and configuration of Haskell
software. The aim is for this workshop to give the people involved with
building the infrastructure behind this ecosystem an opportunity to bat
around ideas, share experiences, and ask for feedback from fellow
experts.

We intend the workshop to have an informal and interactive feel, with a
flexible timetable and plenty of room for ad-hoc discussion, demos, and
impromptu short talks.


Scope and target audience
-------------------------

It is important to distinguish the Haskell Implementors' Workshop from
the Haskell Symposium which is also co-located with ICFP 2013. The
Haskell Symposium is for the publication of Haskell-related research. In
contrast, the Haskell Implementors' Workshop will have no proceedings --
although we will aim to make talk videos, slides and presented data
available with the consent of the speakers.

In the Haskell Implementors' Workshop, we hope to study the underlying
technology. We want to bring together anyone interested in the
nitty-gritty details behind turning plain-text source code into a
deployed product. Having said that, members of the wider Haskell
community are more than welcome to attend the workshop -- we need your
feedback to keep the Haskell ecosystem thriving.

The scope covers any of the following topics. There may be some topics
that people feel we've missed, so by all means submit a proposal even if
it doesn't fit exactly into one of these buckets:

  * Compilation techniques
  * Language features and extensions
  * Type system implementation
  * Concurrency and parallelism: language design and implementation
  * Performance, optimisation and benchmarking
  * Virtual machines and run-time systems
  * Libraries and tools for development or deployment


Talks
-----

At this stage we would like to invite proposals from potential speakers
for a relatively short talk. We are aiming for 20 minute talks with 10
minutes for questions and changeovers. We want to hear from people
writing compilers, tools, or libraries, people with cool ideas for
directions in which we should take the platform, proposals for new
features to be implemented, and half-baked crazy ideas. Please submit a
talk title and abstract of no more than 200 words.

Submissions should be made via EasyChair.  The website is:
  https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hiw2013

If you don't have an account you can create one here:
  https://www.easychair.org/account/signup.cgi 

Because the submission is an abstract only, please click the "abstract
only" button when you make your submission.  There is no need to
attach a separate file.

We will also have a lightning talks session which will be organised on
the day. These talks will be 2-10 minutes, depending on available time.
Suggested topics for lightning talks are to present a single idea, a
work-in-progress project, a problem to intrigue and perplex Haskell
implementors, or simply to ask for feedback and collaborators.


Organisers
----------

  * Ryan Newton        (Indiana University)
  * Neal Glew          (Intel Labs)
  * Edward Yang        (Stanford University)
  * Thomas Schilling   (University of Kent)
  * Geoffrey Mainland  (Drexel University)

