                        Call for Talks
            ACM SIGPLAN Haskell Implementors' Workshop

    http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2012
                Copenhagen, Denmark, September 14th, 2012
      The workshop will be held in conjunction with ICFP 2012
             http://www.icfpconference.org/icfp2012/

Important dates

Proposal Deadline:  10th July      2012
Notification:       27th July      2012
Workshop:           14th September 2012

The Haskell Implementors' Workshop is to be held alongside ICFP 2012
this year in Copenhagen, Denmark. There will be no proceedings; it is an
informal gathering of people involved in the design and development
of Haskell implementations, tools, libraries, and supporting
infrastructure.

This relatively new workshop reflects the growth of the user
community: there is a clear need for a well-supported tool chain for
the development, distribution, deployment, and configuration of
Haskell software.  The aim is for this workshop to give the people
involved with building the infrastructure behind this ecosystem an
opportunity to bat around ideas, share experiences, and ask for
feedback from fellow experts.

We intend the workshop to have an informal and interactive feel, with
a flexible timetable and plenty of room for ad-hoc discussion, demos,
and impromptu short talks.


Scope and target audience
-------------------------

It is important to distinguish the Haskell Implementors' Workshop from
the Haskell Symposium which is also co-located with ICFP 2012. The
Haskell Symposium is for the publication of Haskell-related research. 
In contrast, the Haskell Implementors' Workshop will have no
proceedings -- although we will aim to make talk videos, slides and 
presented data available with the consent of the speakers.

In the Haskell Implementors' Workshop we hope to study the underlying
technology. We want to bring together anyone interested in the nitty
gritty details necessary to turn a text file into a deployed product.
Having said that, members of the wider Haskell community are more than
welcome to attend the workshop -- we need your feedback to keep the
Haskell ecosystem thriving.

The scope covers any of the following topics. There may be some topics
that people feel we've missed, so by all means submit a proposal even
if it doesn't fit exactly into one of these buckets:

  * Compilation techniques
  * Language features and extensions
  * Type system implementation
  * Concurrency and parallelism: language design and implementation
  * Performance, optimisation and benchmarking
  * Virtual machines and run-time systems
  * Libraries and Tools for development or deployment


Talks
-----

At this stage we would like to invite proposals from potential speakers
for a relatively short talk. We are aiming for 20 min talks with 10 mins
for questions and changeovers. We want to hear from people writing
compilers, tools, or libraries, people with cool ideas for directions in
which we should take the platform, proposals for new features to be
implemented, and half-baked crazy ideas. Please submit a talk title and
abstract of no more than 200 words to johan.tibell@gmail.com

We will also have a lightning talks session which will be organised on
the day. These talks will be 2-10 minutes, depending on available time.
Suggested topics for lightning talks are to present a single idea, a
work-in-progress project, a problem to intrigue and perplex Haskell
implementors, or simply to ask for feedback and collaborators.


Organisers
----------

  * Lennart Augustsson         (Standard Chartered Bank)
  * Manuel M T Chakravarty     (University of New South Wales)
  * Gregory Collins - co-chair (Google)
  * Simon Marlow               (Microsoft Research)
  * David Terei                (Stanford University)
  * Johan Tibell - co-chair    (Google)
