----------------------------------------------------------------------

            ICFP 2012, THE 17TH ACM SIGPLAN INTERNATIONAL
                 CONFERENCE ON FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING

                       SEPTEMBER 9 - 15, 2012
                         Copenhagen, Denmark

                        WORKSHOP PROPOSAL FORM

    Note: for workshops that were affiliated with ICFP in 2011, a copy
    of last year's completed proposal form can be obtained for
    reference, by emailing icfp12-workshops at cse.unsw.edu.au.

----------------------------------------------------------------------


NAME OF THE WORKSHOP:

   Haskell Implementors' Workshop

GOALS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   We propose to hold a workshop to bring together those involved in
   implementing Haskell systems, infrastructure, libraries and tools.
   The workshop does not have proceedings, rather it has talks
   selected by a small program committee.  It is forum for those
   involved in implementing Haskell technology to share their work and
   discuss future directions and collaborations with others.

   We intend the workshop to have an informal and interactive feel, with
   a flexible timetable and plenty of room for ad-hoc discussion, demos,
   and impromptu short talks.

   The workshop was held this year (2011) in conjunction with ICFP. We had
   a solid program of 9x 30 min pre-scheduled talks and 6x lightning
   talks that were signed up on the day. The number of lightning talks
   indicates that the workshop is healthy, and we intend to convince those
   community members likely to give lightning talks again next time to submit
   proposals for full talks.

Why is there a need for this workshop?

   * The Haskell user community and language are growing rapidly.
     Implementations are becoming increasingly complex.  There is an
     acute need for a well supported tool chain for the deployment and
     configuration of Haskell software.  This workshop gives the
     language implementors and designers an opportunity to bat around
     ideas, share experiences, and ask for feedback from fellow experts.

   * The Haskell Workshop is now the Haskell Symposium, and as a result
     is no longer suitable for work-in-progress or pure implementation
     presentations. The focus of HIW is on those developers implementing
     the Haskell ecosystem itself, rather than using Haskell for other ends.

   * ICFP is the one time in the year when most of those working on
     Haskell infrastructure are together in the same place, so this is
     the ideal time to hold the workshop.  Most of the potential
     attendees will also want to attend the Haskell Symposium and ICFP.

The scope is as follows:

   * Compilation techniques
   * Language features and extensions
   * Type system implementation
   * Concurrency and parallelism: language design and implementation
   * Performance, optimisation and benchmarking
   * Virtual machines and run-time systems
   * Libraries and Tools


ORGANIZERS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   Name    : Johan Tibell
   Address : 2433 Polk St Apt 5
             San Francisco, CA 94109
             USA
   Email   : johan.tibell@gmail.com
   Phone   : +1 415 886 5239
   Mobile  : +1 415 886 5239

   Name    : Gregory Collins
   Address : Staffelstrasse 4
             8045 Zurich
             Switzerland
   Email   : greg@gregorycollins.net
   Phone   : +41 79 441 6832
   Mobile  : +41 79 441 6832


NAMES OF POTENTIAL PROGRAM COMMITTEE MEMBERS, WITH AFFILIATIONS:

   This is an ordered list of potential PC members. We aim to select
   four plus the two organisers to make a PC of six in total.

   Simon Marlow,            Microsoft Research, UK
   Lennart Augustsson       Standard Chartered Bank, UK
   Manuel M T Chakravarty,  University of New South Wales, Australia
   Bryan O'Sullivan         Mailrank, USA
   David Terei,             Stanford, USA
   Conrad Parker            Tsuru Capital, Japan
   Max Bolingbroke          University of Cambridge, UK
   Edward Z. Yang           MIT, USA

   Organizer affiliations:
   Johan Tibell,            Google, USA
   Gregory Collins,         Google, Switzerland

   We've tried to pick PC members with a variety of
   backgrounds. Unfortunately the Haskell community has few female
   members (e.g. see the list of people at http://www.haskellers.com/)
   and we haven't been able to find that would be a good fit for the
   PC.

PLANS FOR THE CALL FOR PAPERS / PARTICIPATION:

   There will be a CFP asking for potential speakers to submit a talk
   abstract, of similar length to a paper abstract, optionally with
   pointers to supporting materials.  The PC will also invite a
   number of speakers.  There will be a short online PC meeting to
   make the final programme selection.

   Calls for participation will be made in the usual way, using
   mailing lists, blogs, newsgroups and so on.

   Rough timeline:
    * CFP in May;

    * deadline for submissions mid-July (slightly after the author
      notification date for the Haskell Symposium);

    * Online PC meeting shortly after the submission deadline.


EXPECTED NUMBER OF ATTENDEES:


   The breakdown of attendees for HIW 2011 was as follows:

       Early Registration
        23 ACM/SIG Member
        12 non Member
        12 student

       Late Registration
        4  ACM/SIG Member
        5  non Member
        2  student
        1  complementary

   Based on this and the previous workshops we'd expect the numbers of
   attendees to be 50-70.


PLANNED LENGTH OF THE WORKSHOP:   1 day

PLANS FOR PUBLICITY:

   Haskell mailing lists, blogs, newsgroups, web site, personal
   invitations.


PLANS FOR A PUBLISHED PROCEEDINGS:

   No proceedings.  Talk videos and slides published online with
   consent from speakers.


PREVIOUS VERSIONS OF THE WORKSHOP:


   Name                      : Haskell Implementors' Workshop (HIW2011)
   Dates                     : 22nd September 2011
   Location                  : Tokyo, Japan
   Organizers                : Ben Lippmeier, Neil Mitchell
   Website                   : http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2011
   Number of submissions     : 11
   Number of accepted papers : 9x 30 min pre-scheduled talks + 6x lightning talks scheduled on the day.
   Number of attendees       : 59 (including on-site registrations)
   Registration fee          : $120 ACM, $150 non-ACM, $80 student.
                                  late registrants paid $150/$180/$90 USD.
   Budget information        : Not yet available


   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2010)
   Dates                     : October 1st 2010
   Location                  : Baltimore, USA
   Organizers                : Simon Marlow, Duncan Coutts
   Website                   : http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2010
   Number of submissions     : 11 talk proposals + 1 invited talk
   Number of accepted papers : 10x 20 min pre-scheduled talks + 8x 5 min lightning talks scheduled on the day.
   Number of attendees       : 42 (including on-site registrations)
   Registration fee          : $170 ACM, $200 non-ACM, $95 student.
                                  late registrants paid $200/$240/$110 USD.
   Budget information        : Total income $6380USD (~150 per attendee)
                               Expenses:
                                  Catering                $4410
                                  AV Cost                  $580
                                  ACM/SIGPLAN overhead    $1390


   Name                      : Haskell Implementors' Workshop (HIW2009)
   Dates                     : September 5th 2009
   Location                  : Edinburgh, UK
   Organizers                : Simon Marlow, Duncan Coutts
   Website                   : http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2009
   Number of submissions     : 16 talk proposals
   Number of accepted papers : 11 talks
   Number of attendees       : 51 (not including on-site registrations)
   Registration fee          : $125 ACM, $150 non-ACM, $75 student,
                                  late registrants paid $150/$180/$90
   Budget information        : $95 per participant,
                                  plus 16% overhead going to ACM,
                                  plus a contingency buffer (15% of direct costs)

WORKSHOP WEBSITE:

   http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop


VIDEO RECORDING:

   Yes. The workshop was recorded previous years and the videos were well
   received by the larger Haskell community.  Every year, after the program is
   posted online, there have been requests by people who cannot attend to have
   the talks taped.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

   Should not run in parallel with the Haskell Symposium, as most
   attendees will want to go to both. Can run in parallel with
   CUFP tutorials as these are aimed at users of FP which are
   largely disjoint from the set of implementors.

   At ICFP 2011 the scope of events progressed from "academic/theory"
   though to "engineering/practice" over the course of the week, with
   HIW on the second last day running concurrently with CUFP Tutorials.
   This seemed like a good fit.


SUBMISSION INFORMATION:

   The deadline for workshop proposals is NOVEMBER 19, 2011,
   and the completed form should be emailed to the ICFP 2012
   workshop co-chairs (Patrik Jansson and Gabriele Keller),
   via email to icfp12-workshops at cse.unsw.edu.au.

   Authors of workshop proposals will be notified of acceptance
   or rejection by DECEMBER 17, 2011.

   PLEASE NOTE:
   Organizers should await SIGPLAN approval of the included program
   committee membership prior to sending out PC invitations.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
