----------------------------------------------------------------------

            ICFP 2010, THE 15TH ACM SIGPLAN INTERNATIONAL
                 CONFERENCE ON FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING

                       SEPTEMBER 27 - 29, 2010
                         BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

                        WORKSHOP PROPOSAL FORM

    Note: for workshops that were affiliated with ICFP in 2009, a copy
    of last year's completed proposal form can be obtained for
    reference, by emailing icfp10-workshops at mpi-sws.org.

----------------------------------------------------------------------


NAME OF THE WORKSHOP: Haskell Implementors' Workshop


GOALS OF THE WORKSHOP:

We propose to hold a workshop to bring together those involved in
implementing Haskell systems, infrastructure, libraries and tools.
The workshop does not have proceedings, rather it has talks
selected by a small program committee.  It is forum for those
involved in implementing Haskell technology to share their work and
discuss future directions and collaborations with others.

We intend the workshop to have an informal and interactive feel, with
a flexible timetable and plenty of room for ad-hoc discussion, demos,
and impromptu short talks.

The workshop was first held in this format last year (affiliated with
ICFP 2009). It did achieve these goals of good audience interaction
and we managed to schedule several ad-hoc short presentations. It was
well attended, attracting well over the expected number of
registrations.

Why is there a need for this workshop?

  * The Haskell user community and language are growing rapidly.
    Implementations are becoming increasingly complex.  There is an
    acute need for a well supported tool chain for the deployment and
    configuration of Haskell software.  This workshop gives the
    language implementors and designers an opportunity to bat around
    ideas, share experiences, and ask for feedback from fellow experts.

  * The Haskell Workshop is now the Haskell Symposium, and as a result
    is no longer suitable for work-in-progress or pure implementation
    presentations.

  * ICFP is the one time in the year when most of those working on
    Haskell infrastructure are together in the same place, so this is
    the ideal time to hold the workshop.  Most of the potential
    attendees will also want to attend the Haskell Symposium and ICFP.

  * The focus is clearly on those developers involved with implementing
    the Haskell ecosystem itself, rather than using Haskell for other
    ends, so in this sense it does not overlap with DEFUN.

The scope is as follows:

  * Compilation techniques
  * Language features and extensions
  * Type system implementation
  * Concurrency and parallelism: language design and implementation
  * Performance, optimisation and benchmarking
  * Virtual machines and run-time systems
  * Libraries and Tools


ORGANIZERS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   Name    : Simon Marlow
   Address : Microsoft Research Ltd.,
             7 J J Thomson Avenue
             Cambridge
             CB3 0FB
             United Kingdom
   Email   : simonmar@microsoft.com
   Phone   : +44 1223 479847
   Mobile  : +44 7733366798

   Name    : Duncan Coutts
   Address : Flat 4
             1 Cromwell Close
             Oxford
             OX3 0FB
             United Kingdom
   Email   : duncan@haskell.org
   Phone   : +44 1865 794806
   Mobile  : +44 7913261613

   Note that we did organise the first incarnation of workshop last year,
   however we intend to hand it over to new organisers next year.


NAMES OF POTENTIAL PROGRAM COMMITTEE MEMBERS, WITH AFFILIATIONS:

   We list six potential PC members below. We aim to select four
   plus the two organisers to make a PC of six in total.

   Jean-Philippe Bernardy,	Chalmers University
   Iavor Diatchki,		Galois, Inc.
   Ben Lippmeier,		Australian National University
   Neil Mitchell,		Standard Chartered Bank
   Malcolm Wallace,		University of York
   Dimitrios Vytiniotis,	Microsoft Research

   Organisers affiliations:
   Duncan Coutts,		Well-Typed LLP
   Simon Marlow,		Microsoft Research


PLANS FOR THE CALL FOR PAPERS / PARTICIPATION:

   There will be a CFP asking for potential speakers to submit a talk
   abstract, of similar length to a paper abstract, optionally with
   pointers to supporting materials.  The PC will also invite a
   number of speakers.  There will be a short online PC meeting to
   make the final programme selection.

   Calls for participation will be made in the usual way, using
   mailing lists, blogs, newsgroups and so on.

   Rough timeline:
    * CFP in May;

    * deadline for submissions mid-July (slightly after the author
      notification date for the Haskell Symposium);

    * PC meeting shortly after the submission deadline.


EXPECTED NUMBER OF ATTENDEES: approximately 60 

  When the workshop was first held in 2009 it attracted 51 registrations
  in advance, plus an unknown number of on-site registrations.


PLANNED LENGTH OF THE WORKSHOP: 1 day


PLANS FOR PUBLICITY:

   Haskell mailing lists, blogs, newsgroups, web site, personal
   invitations.


PLANS FOR A PUBLISHED PROCEEDINGS:

   No proceedings.  Talk videos and slides published online with
   consent from speakers.


PREVIOUS VERSIONS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   Name                      : Haskell Implementers' Workshop
   Dates                     : September 5th 2009
   Location                  : Edinburgh, UK
   Organizers                : Simon Marlow, Duncan Coutts
   Website                   : http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop
   Number of submissions     : 16 talk proposals
   Number of accepted papers : 11 talks
   Number of attendees       : 51 (not including on-site registrations)
   Registration fee          : $125 ACM, $150 non-ACM, $75 student,
                               late registrants paid $150/$180/$90
   Budget information        : $95 per participant,
                               plus 16% overhead going to ACM,
                               plus a contingency buffer (15% of direct costs)

   Name                      : Haskell Implementor's Meeting
   Dates                     : January 2002
   Location                  : Portland, Oregon
   Organisers                : (unknown)
   Website                   : none
   Number of submissions     : (informal meeting, no proceedings)
   Number of accepted papers : (informal meeting, no proceedings)
   Number of attendees       : about 20
   Registration fee          : unknown
   Budget information        : unknown


WORKSHOP WEBSITE:

   http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop


ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

   Should not run in parallel with the Haskell Symposium (most
   attendees will want to go to both), but can run in parallel with
   DEFUN (DEFUN is aimed primarily at users of FP, which is largely
   disjoint from the set of implementors).

