                        Call for Contributions
               ACM SIGPLAN Haskell Implementors' Workshop

    http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2014
                Gothenburg, Sweden, 06 September, 2014

                    Co-located with ICFP 2014
               http://www.icfpconference.org/icfp2014/

Important dates
---------------
Proposal Deadline:  Monday, 14 July, 2014 (midnight, anywhere on earth)
Notification:               21 July  2014
Workshop:           Saturday, 6 September 2014

The 6th Haskell Implementors' Workshop is to be held alongside ICFP
2014 this year in Gothenburg. It is a forum for people involved in the
design and development of Haskell implementations, tools, libraries,
and supporting infrastructure, to share their work and discuss future
directions and collaborations with others.

Talks and/or demos are proposed by submitting an abstract, and
selected by a small program committee. There will be no published
proceedings; the workshop will be informal and interactive, with a
flexible timetable and plenty of room for ad-hoc discussion, demos,
and impromptu short talks.

Attendance figures clearly reflect the growth of the Haskell user
community and a constant interest in implementation aspects.

Scope and target audience
-------------------------

It is important to distinguish the Haskell Implementors' Workshop from
the Haskell Symposium which is also co-located with ICFP 2014. The
Haskell Symposium is for the publication of Haskell-related research. In
contrast, the Haskell Implementors' Workshop will have no proceedings --
although we will aim to make talk videos, slides and presented data
available with the consent of the speakers.

In the Haskell Implementors' Workshop, we hope to study the underlying
technology. We want to bring together anyone interested in the
nitty-gritty details behind turning plain-text source code into a
deployed product. Having said that, members of the wider Haskell
community are more than welcome to attend the workshop -- we need your
feedback to keep the Haskell ecosystem thriving.

The scope covers any of the following topics. There may be some topics
that people feel we've missed, so by all means submit a proposal even if
it doesn't fit exactly into one of these buckets:

  * Compilation techniques
  * Language features and extensions
  * Type system implementation
  * Concurrency and parallelism: language design and implementation
  * Performance, optimisation and benchmarking
  * Virtual machines and run-time systems
  * Libraries and tools for development or deployment

Talks
-----

At this stage we would like to invite proposals from potential speakers
for talks and demonstrations. We are aiming for 20 minute talks with 10
minutes for questions and changeovers. We want to hear from people
writing compilers, tools, or libraries, people with cool ideas for
directions in which we should take the platform, proposals for new
features to be implemented, and half-baked crazy ideas. Please submit a
talk title and abstract of no more than 300 words.

Submissions should be made via EasyChair. The website is:
  https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hiw2014

If you don't have an account you can create one here:
  https://www.easychair.org/account/signup.cgi 

Because the submission is an abstract only, please click the "abstract
only" button when you make your submission.  There is no need to
attach a separate file.

We will also have a lightning talks session which will be organised on
the day. These talks will be 5-10 minutes, depending on available time.
Suggested topics for lightning talks are to present a single idea, a
work-in-progress project, a problem to intrigue and perplex Haskell
implementors, or simply to ask for feedback and collaborators.

Organisers
----------

  * Jost Berthold (co-chair)     (University of Copenhagen)
  * Kevin Hammond                (University of St.Andrews)
  * Gabriele Keller              (University of New South Wales)
  * Paul Liu                     (Intel Labs)
  * Rita Loogen                  (Philipps-Universitat Marburg)
  * Geoffrey Mainland (co-chair) (Drexel University, Philadelphia)
  * Carter Schonwald             (WellPosed Ltd)

Contact
-------

  * hiw2014@easychair.org
  * Jost Berthold <berthold at di.ku.dk>
  * Geoffrey Mainland <mainland at cs.drexel.edu>
