                        Call for Contributions
               ACM SIGPLAN Haskell Implementors’ Workshop

            https://icfp18.sigplan.org/track/hiw-2018-papers

                     Co-located with ICFP 2018
                      St. Louis, Missouri, US
              https://conf.researchr.org/home/icfp-2018

Important dates
---------------

Proposal Deadline:  Friday, 20 July, 2018
Notification:       Friday, 3 August, 2018
Workshop:           Sunday, 23 September, 2018

Keynote speaker
---------------

This year, the Haskell Implementors’ Workshop is proud to present
Rahul Muttineni as the keynote speaker. Rahul brough the joys of
Haskell to the realm of Java by creating the Eta programming language.

About the Haskell Implementors’ Workshop
----------------------------------------

The 10th Haskell Implementors’ Workshop is to be held alongside ICFP
2018 this year in St. Louis. It is a forum for people involved in the
design and development of Haskell implementations, tools, libraries,
and supporting infrastructure, to share their work and discuss future
directions and collaborations with others.

Talks and/or demos are proposed by submitting an abstract, and
selected by a small program committee. There will be no published
proceedings. The workshop will be informal and interactive, with open
spaces in the timetable and room for ad-hoc discussion, demos and
lightning talks.

Scope and Target Audience
-------------------------

It is important to distinguish the Haskell Implementors’ Workshop from
the Haskell Symposium which is also co-located with ICFP 2018. The
Haskell Symposium is for the publication of Haskell-related research.
In contrast, the Haskell Implementors’ Workshop will have no
proceedings – although we will aim to make talk videos, slides and
presented data available with the consent of the speakers.

The Implementors’ Workshop is an ideal place to describe a Haskell
extension, describe works-in-progress, demo a new Haskell-related
tool, or even propose future lines of Haskell development. Members of
the wider Haskell community encouraged to attend the workshop – we
need your feedback to keep the Haskell ecosystem thriving. Students
working with Haskell are specially encouraged to share their work.

The scope covers any of the following topics. There may be some topics
that people feel we’ve missed, so by all means submit a proposal even
if it doesn’t fit exactly into one of these buckets:

 *  Compilation techniques
 *  Language features and extensions
 *  Type system implementation
 *  Concurrency and parallelism: language design and implementation
 *  Performance, optimisation and benchmarking
 *  Virtual machines and run-time systems
 *  Libraries and tools for development or deployment

Talks
-----

We invite proposals from potential speakers for talks and
demonstrations. We are aiming for 20-minute talks with 5 minutes for
questions and changeovers. We want to hear from people writing
compilers, tools, or libraries, people with cool ideas for directions
in which we should take the platform, proposals for new features to be
implemented, and half-baked crazy ideas. Please submit a talk title
and abstract of no more than 300 words.

Submissions can be made via HotCRP at
                    https://icfp-hiw18.hotcrp.com/
until July 20th (anywhere on earth).

We will also have lightning talks session. These have been very well
received in recent years, and we aim to increase the time available to
them. Lightning talks be ~7mins and are scheduled on the day of the
workshop. Suggested topics for lightning talks are to present a single
idea, a work-in-progress project, a problem to intrigue and perplex
Haskell implementors, or simply to ask for feedback and collaborators.

Program Committee
-----------------

 * Edwin Brady (University of St. Andrews, UK)
 * Joachim Breitner – chair (University of Pennsylvania)
 * Ben Gamari (Well-Typed LLP)
 * Michael Hanus (Kiel University)
 * Roman Leshchinsky (Facebook)
 * Niki Vazou (University of Maryland)

Contact
-------

 * Joachim Breitner <joachim@cis.upenn.edu>
